max prairie which presents at the line
we've gone through is showing you the
basic gear that you need to get started
in your basic trade remember your check
cord choke chain and your hill estates
going to set you up for ninety-nine
point nine percent of what you need to
be successful in the future so we've
gone through he'll some real light work
with a dog in spot where we need him to
be we're going to move on now and we're
going to get a little bit more difficult
we're going to do some outside we're
going to do some inside circles we're
going to really put some pressure on the
dog to stay at hill so we got our
outside turns like this things get a
little more difficult we do our inside
turns okay and then we stop quicker than
we do that now in the future once he
gets really good at this what we'll do
see he really got his head took your
knees trying very hard we take an
e-collar and every time that we went pop
pop pop we're going to use our momentary
setting on our econ and we're going to
go pop pop pop very simple it's a
seamless transition very simple it's a
great way to collar condition your dog
in other words get him used to an
e-collar now so we've gone through how
to heal with the check courts very
simple now what I like to do before i
start my here is work like this sit okay
and i'm walking away from the dog I've
told him sit and only get him used to
some distractions so I'm gonna pop the
collar a little bit i'm a walk around
i'm ready all the time i'm not going to
increase my volume of my voice at all
but i am going to tell him to sit and
raise up on the caller immediately when
he starts to come okay whoops it just
like that okay and I'm going to walk
around him a bunch now this is going to
save you a ton of time when you're
working on here because he understands
what you're doing when you walk away
from me again we don't want to repeat
commands over and over and over so one
good one a little bit of conversation
maybe you have your buddies out
here and they're out here throwing a few
bumpers you got some dogs running around
good distractions great thing to do at a
park okay you go bully come on so we
come through we tell him to sit now what
we're going to do is we're going to back
up in slow increments and we're ready
the entire time to raise up on this
leash let's check cord and tell them to
see it now how do we start here very
easily what we're going to tighten that
cord up we're going to invite him to us
with our body okay and we're going to
give him a little tug now the reason we
want to give them a little tug is
because we're going to transition into
collar conditioning just like this that
collar stimulation is going to replace
that little tug in the future but right
now we're just getting started preach
here here a boy sit go man your man very
nice sit so I'm not moving fast guys I'm
taking my time and when making sure that
we got this foundation solid okay we're
not going to build this house on sand
we're going to build it on concrete so
we're not rushing through this stuff
this needs to take a couple weeks okay
no matter how well he does make sure you
slow down and you take a couple weeks
while you're doing this okay he's doing
good here okay that's it so he's a
little tangled up right now it's no big
deal we're going to move through this
thing here going good man good man go
boy now he'll you come on here sit get
him on take them then we go big I heart
so we're moving along fine everything's
going great now where does the crop come
in or where does your healing stick come
in once we get him used to the check
court and the pressure of the choke
chain we're going to come back and we're
going to tighten everything up we're
going to polish it so we've we've
chiseled this piece of granite into
something that's looking pretty good but
we got to polish it and this is our next
step okay so we're coming through that
you're going to see some guys use this
thing like this they're going to put it
behind them and they're going to come
down on the dog like this man I don't
want to see that I really much rather
see a dog not end up with a flaring
issue
that crop right here where he can see it
in the corner of his eye he knows it's
there all the time and there's not a
bunch of movement okay so here I go heel
heel I'm coming through there he'll sit
just a quick pop here we go heel heel
heel here here you you you sit he's
gonna start trying to beat this pressure
he'll hear you whew good boy good man
here he'll sit now I'm going to get in
the habit of making a correction every
chance I get because I want him to start
beating that pressure and it's going to
take a lot of repetitions to get there
now another thing that the crops great
for here so you've got a big running dog
who wants to be out in front of you heel
heel you can pull him back heel heel
good good good he'll sit let me put him
on this side for you he'll he'll come on
come on come on come on come on sit and
I see he's trying to beat that pressure
guys he's got this deal figured out so
what you got to do is dig in and go
through that you can control how tight a
dog heels to you how far he is out in
front of you how far he's behind you all
with these two tools very simple to use
very easy to use now for the rest of his
life I'm going to do everything I can to
remember i have this because i can
correct all creepy before it begins with
this and what i mean by that is i'm
calling for marks even when he's a puppy
he's six months old and I'm calling for
20 foot marks out there and I've got my
buddy out there and he's going to flip
one out there and I'm ready I'm watching
the dog I'm not watching the mark and if
I see a back leg come up sit I can make
that correction right there so we don't
end up with a bunch of problems down the
road we can do that right now don't get
me wrong you're going to have your
yellows out there that are going to
creep no matter what and you got to
continually fight that battle but for
most dogs this method is going to work
great and you can always tie end up with
an e-collar it's a great way it's a
pillar of all dog training and all great
golf trains will tell you these two
items will take you to the house